Help Center
English (US)
Instagram Purchase Protection Policy
Copy Link
I. Overview
Understanding our policies
Our Purchase Protection Policies are here to provide you with peace of mind whenever you make a purchase through onsite checkout on Facebook or Instagram. We want you to have a great experience every time, but if you have an issue with your purchase, our Policies are in place to help make things right.
For the purposes of this policy, where specified, an individual seller refers to someone selling through a personal profile.
To qualify for Purchase Protection:
Make sure that your purchase is eligible as a Protected Purchase as defined in this policy.
Use onsite checkout on Facebook or Instagram to complete your payment for the purchase. Purchases made through third-party sites, local pickups, Messenger transactions, or through other messaging services do not qualify. Learn which products have onsite checkout on Facebook and Instagram.
Contact the seller first to let them know there's a problem with the purchase. For eligible purchases, if you can't resolve the issue directly with the seller, you may submit a claim through Facebook or Instagram.
We will review your claim to determine whether it qualifies for Purchase Protection, and issue a refund for the full purchase price of the item and shipping costs if your claim is approved. Decisions are made in our sole discretion.
II. Protected Purchases
When are purchases protected?
Many purchases that you make using onsite checkout on Facebook or Instagram are covered by our Purchase Protection policies. Your purchases are protected in the following situations:
Item not received
An item is considered “not received” if an item is not received by the buyer within 16 days after the seller or individual seller confirms the order.
Item damaged or significantly different than described. For example:
Item was damaged during shipping
Item is missing major parts, and this wasn't disclosed
Item condition was different than described
Item is a different version or edition than what was displayed for the purchase
Item is completely different from what was ordered
Seller not following their stated refund policy
Unauthorized purchases
When purchases aren't protected
The following items and situations are not covered by our Purchase Protection Policies:
Any products or services that are prohibited by our Commerce Policies
Vehicles
Real estate
Financial products or investments
Precious metals and gemstones
Equity or debt in a business
Custom or made-to-order items
Services
Donations
Industrial machinery
Perishable items
Buyer's remorse
Items shipped using an intermediary or freight forwarding service
Items where the exchange of the purchased item happens in-person
Orders that have already been refunded or charged back by the buyer's bank
Damage that occurs to items after they are delivered
Items with a purchase price over $2,000
Tickets
III. Disputes and Refunds
Reaching Out To The Seller
You should first contact the seller to resolve your issue with a purchase. The seller has 2 business days to respond to you and attempt to resolve your issue.
Filing a Claim with Facebook or Instagram
If a seller has not responded or resolved your issue after 2 business days, you can submit a claim for our review on the 3rd business day.
When you file a claim, answer the questions presented, and include details regarding your issue within the form. We'll review your claim, including any messages that you and the seller sent to each other along with supporting documentation from the buyer and the seller. We'll typically respond within 48 hours.
Learn how to contact the seller for help or submit a claim to Facebook or Instagram.
Refunds & Returns
If you are requesting a refund, remember to contact the seller within the return period specified in the product listing and follow the seller's instructions for returning the delivered item.
If the seller is unresponsive or is not following their stated return policy, you may still be required to provide a valid tracking number of the returned item or other proof of return to us in order to receive a Purchase Protection refund.
Limitations
You can file a claim for the full price of an item with a purchase price up to $2,000 including tax and shipping. You have a lifetime coverage limit of $10,000.
You must file a claim within 45 days from the date of delivery of your purchased product, or within 60 days for unauthorized claims. If you never received your item, you must wait 2 days after the last date of estimated delivery before filing a claim.
When reporting unauthorized purchases, you should notify us immediately so that we can try to protect you from financial loss. You must submit a claim within 60 days after the charge.
You must be in compliance with our terms and policies, including the Community Payments Terms, to be eligible for Purchase Protection.
Resolving and Closing Cases
If we approve a buyer's claim, in some situations, Facebook may offer a partial refund, otherwise the refunded amount will include the full price of the item, tax, and shipping fees. Decisions on claims are made in our sole discretion.
Denied Claims
Reasons your claim could be denied under this policy include:
The item received was the same as described by the seller in your purchase
The claim was filed due to buyer's remorse
The item was received and the seller verified the delivery of the product
You disputed the transaction with the bank that issued your credit or debit card
You didn't submit sufficient evidence requested by Facebook to support your claim
Policy Abuse
If you file fraudulent claims for purchases made on Facebook or Instagram, we may disable your ability to make payments or take additional action on your account.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Related Articles
Instagram Policy Pages
Instagram Badges Purchase Terms
How do I delete my Instagram account?
What should I do if someone on Instagram asks me to buy goods or services from them?
Can I use Facebook Pay on Instagram to make purchases in online stores?
Are my purchases protected with Facebook Pay on Instagram?
© 2022 Meta
About Us
API
Jobs
Terms
Privacy