Skip to main content
Control the ads you see when you see them

 

In this article
Where can you control your ads
Block an ad
Report an ad
Like an ad
Customize your ads
About this advertiser
Where can you control your ads

With My Ad Center and About this Ad, you have greater control of your ad experience. Whether you're on Google services, like YouTube and Search, or on sites that partner with Google to show ads, you can block an ad, report an ad, learn who paid for an ad, and much more.

My Ad Center works best in the newest versions of your browser. Without the most up-to-date version of your browser, you may not be able to use My Ad Center. Learn more about how to update your browser.

My Ad Center on ads

You can open My Ad Center directly on the ads you see on Google services, like Search and YouTube.

To open My Ad Center on an ad: select  More or Info .

My Ad Center is being rolled out across all Google services. You may; however, not see all of the following features on all Google services right away.
My Ad Center on your Connected TV

If you use a Connected TV with Android TV, Google TV, or the YouTube app on your TV you can open My Ad Center directly from the ads you see. To help protect your privacy, you’ll be provided a special link and a QR code to access My Ad Center.

To access My Ad Center on your Connected TV, using your remote or connected mobile device: 

On the ad, select Ad Options.
Visit the special link provided
Or
Scan the QR Code on your Connected TV with your mobile device’s camera.
About this Ad

You can open About this Ad directly on the ads you see on partner sites and apps. Partner sites and apps use Google technology to show ads and are neither owned nor operated by Google.

Not every website or app uses Google technology to show ads. Many sites and apps use other ad platforms to show ads.
Block an ad

With My Ad Center and About this Ad, you can block ads you don’t want to see. After you block an ad, we’ll do our best to make sure you don’t see that same ad on Google services or partner sites while you’re signed in to your Google Account.

This feature isn’t available if you’ve turned personalized ads off or are signed out of your Google Account.

Learn more how to turn on or off personalized ads on Google.

On Google

To block an ad on Google service, like Search and YouTube:

On the ad, select  More or Info .
Select Block ad .
On your Connected TV

To stop seeing an ad on your Connected TV, using your remote or connected mobile device: 

On the ad, select Ad Options.
Select Stop seeing this ad.
On sites and apps that partner with Google

To stop seeing an ad on sites and apps that partner with Google:

On the ad, select Close or Adchoices .
Select Stop seeing this ad.
How to report an ad

Keeping ads safe for users is a top priority for Google, but sometimes bad ones fall through the cracks. If you see an ad that you think violates Google’s ad policies, you can report it.

Reporting an ad does not block that ad. Learn more about how to block an ad.

Depending upon where you see an ad, the step and icons below may be slightly different. To report an ad:

For ads you see on Google services, on the ad, select  More or Info .
Or
For ads you see on sites and apps that partner with Google, on the ad,  select Close or Adchoices Why this ad?
If you see multiple ads at the top of My Ad Center, select the ad you'd like to report. 
Select Report ad.
If you're not signed in to your Google Account, enter your email address. 
Select the reason why you're reporting the ad. 
Fill out the form.
If the form has any fields that are pre-filled, do not edit them.
If required, provide additional details telling us why you think this ad violates our policies.
For example, if you think an ad is phishing, provide the name of the site this ad claims to be from.
Select Submit.

After you report an ad, you’ll get an email confirming that we’ve received your report.

Once we've received your report, we will review it. Learn more about our review process
Like an ad

If you see an ad on Google for a product or service you’re interested in, you can like that ad. After you like an ad, you may start to see ads like it more often.

To like an ad on Google sites:

On the ad, select  More or Info .
If you see multiple ads at the top of My Ad Center, select the ad you want to like. 
Select Like ad .

This feature isn’t available if you’ve turned personalized ads off or are signed out of your Google Account.

Learn more how to turn on or off personalized ads on Google.

Customize ad topics and brands

With My Ad Center, you can customize your ads by choosing the topics and brands that you’d like to get more or fewer ads about. By customizing your ads, you have greater control of the kinds of ads you see on Google services, like Search and YouTube.  

When you customize your ad, you are influencing how Google determines what ads to show you. If you tell Google you’d like to see more ads about hiking and see fewer ads about jewelry, you may start to see more ads related to the outdoors  and fewer ones related to necklaces.

Customizing your ads does not block ad topics or brands
Customizing your ads doesn't mean you'll see more or fewer ads overall. When you tell Google you want to see fewer ads about a topic or brand, you’ll start to see fewer ads about that topic or brand soon. In some instances, however, you still might see an ad about that topic or brand. For example, if you wanted to see fewer ads about jewelry, but use Google Search to look for earrings, you may see ads for earrings.
On Google

You can customize your ads in My Ad Center and on ads you see on Google services. To customize your ads, when you see an ad on Google:

On the ad,   select  More or Info .
Select See more  or See fewer  on the topics or brands you want to see more or fewer ads about.

My Ad Center is being rolled out across all Google services. You may, however, not see this feature on all Google services right away.

This feature isn’t available if you’ve turned personalized ads off or are signed out of your Google Account.

Learn more how to turn on or off personalized ads on Google.

About this advertiser

Google requires advertisers complete an identity verification process. This process requires that advertisers provide legal documentation with their name and location. You’ll see these ad disclosures on Google services, such as Search and YouTube, and other sites that partner with Google.

Learn more about the advertiser identity verification process

On Google

To learn more about an advertiser on Google services, like Search and YouTube:

On the ad,   select  More or Info .
Select About this advertiser.
On sites and apps that partner with Google

To learn more about an advertiser on sites and apps that partner with Google:

On the ad,  select Close or Adchoices .
Select Why this ad?
Was this helpful?YesNo