Jump to
Sections of this page
Accessibility Help
Press alt + / to open this menu
Help Center
Using Facebook
Managing Your Account
Privacy, Safety and Security
Policies and Reporting
English (US)
Managing Your Account
Login and Password
Your Profile and Settings
Names on Facebook
Notifications
Ad Preferences
How Ads Work on Facebook
Control the Ads You See
Your Info and Facebook Ads
Accessing & Downloading Your Information
Deactivating or Deleting Your Account
How does Facebook work with data providers?
Share Article

This page used to contain a list of the third-party data providers that Facebook worked with to offer their targeting segments directly on Facebook, and a description of that program. After we last updated our Data Policy (in April 2018), we terminated this program. Facebook no longer works with third-party data providers to offer their targeting segments directly on Facebook.

Businesses may continue, on their own, to work with data providers. Many businesses today work with third parties to help manage and understand their marketing efforts. For example, an auto dealer may want to customize an offer to people who are likely to be interested in buying a new car. The dealer also might want to send offers, like discounts for service, to customers that have purchased a car from them. To do this, the auto dealer works with a third-party company to identify and reach those customers with the right offer.

So businesses who advertise to you may be using a list of people that they've gotten, or gotten the ability to use, from third parties that they work with for their marketing efforts. Businesses that advertise on Facebook are required to have any necessary rights and permissions to use this information, as outlined in our Custom Audience Terms that businesses must agree to.

You can learn more about what influences the ads you see and control your ads experience by visiting Ad Preferences.

Related Articles
What is data scraping and what can I do to protect my information on Facebook?
What categories of my Facebook data are available to me?
The Facebook Business Tools
What data is stored by Facebook?
What is off-Facebook activity?
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Facebook © 2021
About
Privacy
Terms and Policies
Ad Choices
Careers
Cookies
Create Ad
Create Page